README.md, before:

[![Contributors][ack-contributors-shield]][ack-contributors]
[![Forks][ack-forks-shield]][ack-forks]
[![Stargazers][ack-stars-shield]][ack-stars]
[![Issues][ack-issues-shield]][ack-issues]
[![MIT License][ack-license-shield]][license]

[![NestJs][nestjs-shield]][ref-nestjs]
[![NodeJs][nodejs-shield]][ref-nodejs]
[![Typescript][typescript-shield]][ref-typescript]
[![MongoDB][mongodb-shield]][ref-mongodb]
[![JWT][jwt-shield]][ref-jwt]
[![Jest][jest-shield]][ref-jest]
[![Yarn][yarn-shield]][ref-yarn]
[![Docker][docker-shield]][ref-docker]

# ACK NestJs Boilerplate Mongoose  🔥 🚀

> Standard architecture for nestjs

ack-nestjs-mongoose is a [NestJs](http://nestjs.com) Boilerplate with [Mongoose](https://mongoosejs.com) and [MongoDB](https://docs.mongodb.com) as Database.

Made with following
- [nodejs-best-practice](https://github.com/goldbergyoni/nodebestpractices)
- [The Twelve-Factor App](https://12factor.net)
- NestJs Habit.

*You can [Request Feature][ack-issues] or [Report Bug][ack-issues] with following this link*

## Important

> ack-nestjs-mongoose still on trial and error phase and the test will base on real projects or cases. So there will be (always) have new update and new features.

If you change env value of `APP_MODE` to `secure` that will trigger more `Middleware` and `Guard`.

1. `TimestampMiddleware`, tolerant 5 minutes of request.
2. `UserAgentMiddleware`, whitelist of user agent.
3. `ApiKeyGuard`, check api key based on database.
4. `CorsMiddleware`, check cors based on configs.

You can see our `e2e testing file` or read the documentation on [section environment][ack-doc-env].

## Build with

Describes which version .

| Name       | Version  |
| ---------- | -------- |
| NestJs     | v9.x     |
| NodeJs     | v18.x    |
| Typescript | v4.x     |
| Mongoose   | v6.x     |
| MongoDB    | v5.x     |
| Yarn       | v1.x     |
| NPM        | v8.x     |
| Docker     | v20.x    |
| Docker Compose | v2.x |

## Objective

ack-nestjs-mongoose have some objective.

- Simple, scalable and secure
- Avoid spaghetti code
- Component based
- Reusable component
- Easy to maintenance
- Support for all microservice patterns

## Features

- NestJs v9.x 🥳
- Production Ready 🔥
- Typescript 🚀
- Authentication and Authorization (JWT, OAuth2, API Key, Basic Auth, Role Management) 💪
- User Agent Check
- MongoDB Integrate by Using Mongoose Package 🎉
- Database Migration (NestJs-Command)
- Storage with AWS (S3)
- Server Side Pagination (3 Types)
- Url Versioning
- Request Validation Pipe with Custom Message 🛑
- Custom Error Status Code 🤫
- Logger (Morgan) and Debugger (Winston) 📝
- Centralize Configuration 🤖
- Centralize Exception Filter, and Custom Error Structure
- Multi-language (i18n) 🗣
- Timezone Awareness, and Custom Timezone
- Request Timeout, and Request Custom Timeout (Override) ⌛️
- Dynamic Setting from Database 🗿
- Maintenance Mode on / off 🐤
- Server Side Pagination
- Cache Manager Implementation
- Support Docker Installation
- Support CI/CD with Github Action or Jenkins
- Husky GitHook For Check Source Code, and Run Test Before Commit 🐶
- Linter with EsLint for Typescript

## Prerequisites

We assume that everyone who comes here is _**`programmer with intermediate knowledge`**_ and we also need to understand more before we begin in order to reduce the knowledge gap.

1. Understand [NestJs Fundamental](http://nestjs.com), Main Framework. NodeJs Framework with support fully TypeScript.
2. Understand[Typescript Fundamental](https://www.typescriptlang.org), Programming Language. It will help us to write and read the code.
3. Understand [ExpressJs Fundamental](https://nodejs.org), NodeJs Base Framework. It will help us in understanding how the NestJs Framework works.
4. Understand what NoSql is and how it works as a database, especially [MongoDB.](https://docs.mongodb.com)
5. Optional, Understand [Microservice Architecture](https://microservices.io) and the design pattern.
6. Optional,[The Twelve Factor Apps](https://12factor.net)
7. Optional, Understand [Docker](ref-docker) that can help you to run the project

## Todo

Next development

- [x] Import data form excel
- [x] Version 2. New folder structure, new file upload decorator
- [x] Reduce mixin usage
- [ ] Upload file multiple update
- [ ] File streaming for video and audio
- [x] Rename repo from `ack-nestjs-boilerplate-mongoose` to `ack-nestjs-mongoose`
- [x] Message en,id
- [x] Optimize code, remove unnecessary code
- [x] Update Unit test
- [x] Update E2E test
- [ ] Update Documentation

## Example

ack-nestjs-mongoose has advance example. Feel free to check it by yourself.

## Documentation

Let's go into deep ! 🚀

- [Documentation][ack-docs]

## License

Distributed under [MIT licensed][license].

## Contributors

Thanks goes to these wonderful people

### Boilerplate

<table>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">
            <a href="https://github.com/PSheon">
                <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/20603727?v=4" width="80px;" alt="PSheon"/>
                <br />
                <sub> <b> PSheon </b> </sub>
            </a>
            <br />
        </td>
        <td align="center">
            <a href="https://github.com/aallithioo">
                <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/33598841?v=4" width="80px;" alt="aallithioo"/>
                <br />
                <sub> <b> aallithioo </b> </sub>
            </a>
            <br />
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

### Documentation

<table>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">
            <a href="https://github.com/tiaamoo">
                <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/97380402?v=4" width="80px;" alt="Tiaamoo"/>
                <br />
                <sub> <b> Tiaamoo </b> </sub>
            </a>
            <br />
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

## Contact

[Andre Christi kan][author-email]

[![Github][github-shield]][author-github]
[![LinkedIn][linkedin-shield]][author-linkedin]
[![Instagram][instagram-shield]][author-instagram]

<!-- BADGE LINKS -->
[ack-contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose?style=for-the-badge
[ack-forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose?style=for-the-badge
[ack-stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose?style=for-the-badge
[ack-issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose?style=for-the-badge
[ack-license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose?style=for-the-badge

[nestjs-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/nestjs-%23E0234E.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=nestjs&logoColor=white
[nodejs-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-339933?style=for-the-badge&logo=nodedotjs&logoColor=white
[typescript-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-007ACC?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript&logoColor=white
[mongodb-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-white?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=4EA94B
[jwt-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/JWT-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=JSON%20web%20tokens&logoColor=white
[jest-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-jest-%23C21325?style=for-the-badge&logo=jest&logoColor=white
[yarn-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/yarn-%232C8EBB.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=yarn&logoColor=white
[docker-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-%230db7ed.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker&logoColor=white

[github-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-100000?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white
[linkedin-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white
[instagram-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Instagram-E4405F?style=for-the-badge&logo=instagram&logoColor=white

<!-- CONTACTS -->
[author-linkedin]: https://linkedin.com/in/andrechristikan
[author-instagram]: https://www.instagram.com/___ac.k
[author-email]: mailto:ack@baibay.id
[author-github]: https://github.com/andrechristikan

<!-- Repo LINKS -->
[ack-repo]: https://github.com/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose
[ack-e2e]: /e2e
[ack-issues]: https://github.com/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose/issues
[ack-stars]: https://github.com/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose/stargazers
[ack-forks]: https://github.com/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose/network/members
[ack-contributors]: https://github.com/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose/graphs/contributors
[ack-history]: https://github.com/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose/commits/main

<!-- ack microservice -->
[ack-microservice-repo]: https://github.com/andrechristikan/ack-microservice-mongoose

<!-- license -->
[license]: LICENSE.md

<!-- Documents -->
[ack-docs]: https://andrechristikan.github.io/ack-nestjs-boilerplate-docs/

<!-- Reference -->
[ref-nestjs]: http://nestjs.com
[ref-mongoose]: https://mongoosejs.com/
[ref-mongodb]: https://docs.mongodb.com/
[ref-nodejs-best-practice]: https://github.com/goldbergyoni/nodebestpractices
[ref-nodejs]: https://nodejs.org/
[ref-typescript]: https://www.typescriptlang.org/
[ref-jwt]: https://jwt.io
[ref-jest]: https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started
[ref-docker]: https://docs.docker.com
[ref-yarn]: https://yarnpkg.com
[ref-postman-import-export]: https://learning.postman.com/docs/getting-started/importing-and-exporting-data/

Commit message:

file pipe, response decorator, helper array

README.md, after:

[![Contributors][ack-contributors-shield]][ack-contributors]
[![Forks][ack-forks-shield]][ack-forks]
[![Stargazers][ack-stars-shield]][ack-stars]
[![Issues][ack-issues-shield]][ack-issues]
[![MIT License][ack-license-shield]][license]

[![NestJs][nestjs-shield]][ref-nestjs]
[![NodeJs][nodejs-shield]][ref-nodejs]
[![Typescript][typescript-shield]][ref-typescript]
[![MongoDB][mongodb-shield]][ref-mongodb]
[![JWT][jwt-shield]][ref-jwt]
[![Jest][jest-shield]][ref-jest]
[![Yarn][yarn-shield]][ref-yarn]
[![Docker][docker-shield]][ref-docker]

# ACK NestJs Boilerplate Mongoose  🔥 🚀

> Standard architecture for nestjs

ack-nestjs-mongoose is a [NestJs](http://nestjs.com) Boilerplate with [Mongoose](https://mongoosejs.com) and [MongoDB](https://docs.mongodb.com) as Database.

Made with following
- [nodejs-best-practice](https://github.com/goldbergyoni/nodebestpractices)
- [The Twelve-Factor App](https://12factor.net)
- NestJs Habit.

*You can [Request Feature][ack-issues] or [Report Bug][ack-issues] with following this link*

## Important

> ack-nestjs-mongoose still on trial and error phase and the test will base on real projects or cases. So there will be (always) have new update and new features.

If you change env value of `APP_MODE` to `secure` that will trigger more `Middleware` and `Guard`.

1. `TimestampMiddleware`, tolerant 5 minutes of request.
2. `UserAgentMiddleware`, whitelist of user agent.
3. `ApiKeyGuard`, check api key based on database.
4. `CorsMiddleware`, check cors based on configs.

You can see our `e2e testing file` or read the documentation on [section environment][ack-doc-env].

## Build with

Describes which version .

| Name       | Version  |
| ---------- | -------- |
| NestJs     | v9.x     |
| NodeJs     | v18.x    |
| Typescript | v4.x     |
| Mongoose   | v6.x     |
| MongoDB    | v5.x     |
| Yarn       | v1.x     |
| NPM        | v8.x     |
| Docker     | v20.x    |
| Docker Compose | v2.x |

## Objective

ack-nestjs-mongoose have some objective.

- Simple, scalable and secure
- Avoid spaghetti code
- Component based
- Reusable component
- Easy to maintenance
- Support for all microservice patterns

## Features

- NestJs v9.x 🥳
- Production Ready 🔥
- Typescript 🚀
- Authentication and Authorization (JWT, OAuth2, API Key, Basic Auth, Role Management) 💪
- User Agent Check
- MongoDB Integrate by Using Mongoose Package 🎉
- Database Migration (NestJs-Command)
- Storage with AWS (S3)
- Server Side Pagination (3 Types)
- Url Versioning
- Request Validation Pipe with Custom Message 🛑
- Custom Error Status Code 🤫
- Logger (Morgan) and Debugger (Winston) 📝
- Centralize Configuration 🤖
- Centralize Exception Filter, and Custom Error Structure
- Multi-language (i18n) 🗣
- Timezone Awareness, and Custom Timezone
- Request Timeout, and Request Custom Timeout (Override) ⌛️
- Dynamic Setting from Database 🗿
- Maintenance Mode on / off 🐤
- Server Side Pagination
- Cache Manager Implementation
- Support Docker Installation
- Support CI/CD with Github Action or Jenkins
- Husky GitHook For Check Source Code, and Run Test Before Commit 🐶
- Linter with EsLint for Typescript

## Prerequisites

We assume that everyone who comes here is _**`programmer with intermediate knowledge`**_ and we also need to understand more before we begin in order to reduce the knowledge gap.

1. Understand [NestJs Fundamental](http://nestjs.com), Main Framework. NodeJs Framework with support fully TypeScript.
2. Understand[Typescript Fundamental](https://www.typescriptlang.org), Programming Language. It will help us to write and read the code.
3. Understand [ExpressJs Fundamental](https://nodejs.org), NodeJs Base Framework. It will help us in understanding how the NestJs Framework works.
4. Understand what NoSql is and how it works as a database, especially [MongoDB.](https://docs.mongodb.com)
5. Optional, Understand [Microservice Architecture](https://microservices.io) and the design pattern.
6. Optional,[The Twelve Factor Apps](https://12factor.net)
7. Optional, Understand [Docker](ref-docker) that can help you to run the project

## Todo

Next development

- [x] Import data form excel
- [x] Version 2. New folder structure, new file upload decorator
- [x] Reduce mixin usage
- [x] Upload file multiple update
- [ ] File large upload into s3 for video and audio. using array of chunk
- [x] Rename repo from `ack-nestjs-boilerplate-mongoose` to `ack-nestjs-mongoose`
- [x] Message en,id
- [x] Optimize code, remove unnecessary code
- [x] Update Unit test
- [x] Update E2E test
- [ ] Update Documentation

## Example

ack-nestjs-mongoose has advance example. Feel free to check it by yourself.

## Documentation

Let's go into deep ! 🚀

- [Documentation][ack-docs]

## License

Distributed under [MIT licensed][license].

## Contributors

Thanks goes to these wonderful people

### Boilerplate

<table>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">
            <a href="https://github.com/PSheon">
                <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/20603727?v=4" width="80px;" alt="PSheon"/>
                <br />
                <sub> <b> PSheon </b> </sub>
            </a>
            <br />
        </td>
        <td align="center">
            <a href="https://github.com/aallithioo">
                <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/33598841?v=4" width="80px;" alt="aallithioo"/>
                <br />
                <sub> <b> aallithioo </b> </sub>
            </a>
            <br />
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

### Documentation

<table>
    <tr>
        <td align="center">
            <a href="https://github.com/tiaamoo">
                <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/97380402?v=4" width="80px;" alt="Tiaamoo"/>
                <br />
                <sub> <b> Tiaamoo </b> </sub>
            </a>
            <br />
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

## Contact

[Andre Christi kan][author-email]

[![Github][github-shield]][author-github]
[![LinkedIn][linkedin-shield]][author-linkedin]
[![Instagram][instagram-shield]][author-instagram]

<!-- BADGE LINKS -->
[ack-contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose?style=for-the-badge
[ack-forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose?style=for-the-badge
[ack-stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose?style=for-the-badge
[ack-issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose?style=for-the-badge
[ack-license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose?style=for-the-badge

[nestjs-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/nestjs-%23E0234E.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=nestjs&logoColor=white
[nodejs-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-339933?style=for-the-badge&logo=nodedotjs&logoColor=white
[typescript-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-007ACC?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript&logoColor=white
[mongodb-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-white?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=4EA94B
[jwt-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/JWT-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=JSON%20web%20tokens&logoColor=white
[jest-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-jest-%23C21325?style=for-the-badge&logo=jest&logoColor=white
[yarn-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/yarn-%232C8EBB.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=yarn&logoColor=white
[docker-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-%230db7ed.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker&logoColor=white

[github-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub-100000?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white
[linkedin-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white
[instagram-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Instagram-E4405F?style=for-the-badge&logo=instagram&logoColor=white

<!-- CONTACTS -->
[author-linkedin]: https://linkedin.com/in/andrechristikan
[author-instagram]: https://www.instagram.com/___ac.k
[author-email]: mailto:ack@baibay.id
[author-github]: https://github.com/andrechristikan

<!-- Repo LINKS -->
[ack-repo]: https://github.com/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose
[ack-e2e]: /e2e
[ack-issues]: https://github.com/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose/issues
[ack-stars]: https://github.com/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose/stargazers
[ack-forks]: https://github.com/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose/network/members
[ack-contributors]: https://github.com/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose/graphs/contributors
[ack-history]: https://github.com/andrechristikan/ack-nestjs-mongoose/commits/main

<!-- ack microservice -->
[ack-microservice-repo]: https://github.com/andrechristikan/ack-microservice-mongoose

<!-- license -->
[license]: LICENSE.md

<!-- Documents -->
[ack-docs]: https://andrechristikan.github.io/ack-nestjs-boilerplate-docs/

<!-- Reference -->
[ref-nestjs]: http://nestjs.com
[ref-mongoose]: https://mongoosejs.com/
[ref-mongodb]: https://docs.mongodb.com/
[ref-nodejs-best-practice]: https://github.com/goldbergyoni/nodebestpractices
[ref-nodejs]: https://nodejs.org/
[ref-typescript]: https://www.typescriptlang.org/
[ref-jwt]: https://jwt.io
[ref-jest]: https://jestjs.io/docs/getting-started
[ref-docker]: https://docs.docker.com
[ref-yarn]: https://yarnpkg.com
[ref-postman-import-export]: https://learning.postman.com/docs/getting-started/importing-and-exporting-data/
